Our sights are set on becoming the world number one at creating and marketing mobile apps. As a company of rational thinkers with big visions, we want our future greatness to rest on robust foundations of truth—from the tiniest app feature choices, all the way up to the most dramatic strategic decisions. To make this happen, we’re looking for a brilliant, business-driven number-cruncher, who’s completely obsessed with data and finding (often counterintuitive) answers to important questions.


A few examples of your responsibilities:

Help define the most pressing product and/or business questions that big data can help answer—then figure out how to find those answers.

Query and analyze massive sets of usage data to identify improvement opportunities and actionable insights, to profoundly impact our product strategy and roadmap.

Create high-quality reports to explain your findings and discuss their implications with the relevant people.

Screen the app stores and study competitors’ apps in search of insights and ideas we could leverage.

Help direct the development of our technologies devoted to the acquisition, storage, and manipulation of big data, ensuring Bending Spoons is constantly breaking new ground in this field.


What we offer

Top-notch team. You’ll be surrounded by experts, leaders, and innovators. Your team will be made up of the brightest and nicest people you’ve ever worked with.

Huge impact. Your analysis will help steer Bending Spoons’ decisions. That means you’ll impact tens of millions of users—and even the app industry at large—over the next few years.

Lots. Of. Data. With tens of millions of users, hundreds of thousands of new users every day, and an ever-growing portfolio of apps, Bending Spoons is the perfect playground for a data junkie (we know you are—we are too!).

International reach. Our users are all over the world. Our company language is English. We’re a global force, and your work will have worldwide exposure.

Unique career opportunity. By joining a fast-growing company on a mission to do phenomenal things in the booming mobile market, you get a unique opportunity to turbocharge your learning and career.


What we look for

Rock-solid analytical reasoning. You crunch numbers and perform calculations with confidence and accuracy. You interpret graph patterns at a glance. You’re a quick learner and can investigate and pick up new concepts on your own—especially when it comes to numbers and data.

Eternal inquisitiveness. You feel the urge to understand why things are the way they are, and you’re suspicious of unproven assumptions. Finding the truth and explaining it is your crusade.

Pragmatism. Far from being too obsessive in your perfectionism, you understand that, when getting things done in a competitive world, speed is often as important as quality.

A relevant degree. You studied Mathematics, Physics, Engineering, or Economics, ideally at M.Sc. level. This isn’t required, but it’s a strong plus.

Solid IT and spreadsheet skills. You’re savvy enough to smoothly use Google Docs, Google Sheets, and/or Microsoft Excel. Ideally, you can run SQL queries. But don’t worry, we’ll teach you everything you don’t know.

Obsession with numbers. You live to break down and analyze big datasets for insights—then look at the same numbers from a different angle to find another way of reading them. This process is so second-nature by now that you always end up knowing your numbers by heart!

Interest in the topic. You’re going to love the job if you’re excited by the mobile app market and its possibilities, and if understanding user psychology through numbers fascinates you.

Drive. You’re energetic, hard-working, and persevere through adversity until the job is done—and done well!

Good communication skills. You can pose questions with clarity, explain your reasoning concisely, pick the right graph to express a message, and create brief, insightful reports with a touch of flair.

Proficiency in English. You read, write, and speak proficiently in English.



Commitment & contract

Full-time, permanent (tempo indeterminato).


Location

Milan, Corso Como 15. It’s fine if you prefer to work remotely sometimes. We offer substantial support for relocation, including finding an apartment in Milan and paying the rent for twelve weeks.


Compensation & benefits

Generous, top of market, and moreover can grow very rapidly and include stock options, depending on performance. Breakfast, lunch, and snacks are on us when you work from the office. You’ll receive the latest Mac, iPhone, and wireless noise-canceling Bose headset, as well as any software you might need to perform at your best.
