Description
Empatica

Our mission is to provide intelligent technology that is friendly, caring and more human.

We build AI systems to understand human behavior through wearable sensors. Our technology empowers thousands of patients, clinicians and researchers with real-time human insight, driven by physiological and behavioural biomarkers.

We design and develop medical-quality wearable devices aimed to improve people's emotional well-being and save lives. Embrace2, our hero product, is the only wrist-worn seizure monitor cleared by the FDA.

We believe in a work environment that fosters autonomy, mastery and purpose. Each employee at Empatica is mentored and supported in their personal and professional development goals. We are a team of passionate people from all over the world bringing high levels of creativity to our everyday work.

Watch the recent TEDx talk delivered by our Co-Founder and Chief Scientist Rosalind Picard to learn more about the history of Empatica and what drives our commitment to great work: https://www.ted.com/talks/rosalind_picard_an_ai_smartwatch_that_detects_seizures_and_saves_lives



The new team player

Empatica is looking for a highly talented Senior Data Scientist that can help drive the technological challenge of detecting new types of epileptic seizures.
Empatica have successfully applied machine learning techniques to the detection generalized tonic clonic seizures. We are now further pushing the limits of the technology by aiming at the detection of other types of seizures which may have subject specific patters or that might requires other type of sensor as they do not generate visible motor components.
We are looking for Senior Data Scientist with a passion for Neuroscience and scientific discovery who has solid experience in Machine Learning techniques and in solving complex scientific challenges.



Your contribution to the mission

You will:

Manage R&D projects on seizure detection from a time and resources perspective.
Interact with a technical leader in machine learning which will help you in developing methodological and technical skills.
Develop algorithms for the detection of epileptic seizure by performing the following activities
Literature study to determine reference performance and methods
Data exploration to evaluate the presence of core physiological phenomena associated with seizures
Feature engineering to define signal processing techniques that can extract the phenomena of interest
Identifying potential appropriate machine learning approaches that can meet the expected performances on the available data
Model development, including model selection, tuning and optimization, also considering the use in real life applications
Model training and testing in cross-validation or on prospective data
Design, develop and maintain data processing pipelines that are able to analyze labeled dataset from our sensors to models generation.
Design, prepare, and review dataset that are needed for the training and validation of seizure detection algorithms.
Write scientific contributions to support premarket submissions to FDA (e.g. 510(k) ) or to submit peer-reviewed articles to conference and/or journals.
Coordinate and communicate efficiently with other area of the company to facilitate the transfer of project results into products.
Requirements

The ideal candidate for this role

Has a PhD in bioengineering or computer science. Preferred field of application is Neurology.
Is experienced in R&D project management either in company or academic settings.
Is highly proficient in signal processing, statistical analysis, and the development of machine learning algorithms.
Has worked on one of more of the following physiological signals and/or sensors: Heart Rate, Electrodermal Activity, Accelerometer, preferably from wearable devices.
Has strong programming skills in one or more of the following languages: Matlab, Python.
Scientific writing skills (technical reports, white papers, peer-reviewed papers, conference posters or presentations).
The ideal candidate for Empatica

Is a very quick learner
Is a very quick learner (it’s not a typo)
Is fun and easy to work with
Is a hard-worker and collaborative
Has an excellent execution mindset
Is proficient in English (mother tongue is highly appreciated)
Has outstanding planning, time management and multitasking skills
Is focused on quality and excellence
Is flexible in terms of working time and ability to travel
Is a problem-solving hustler who can take on any big or small project
Is passionate about our products and our mission

Benefits
Competitive salary
We have offices in Milan City Center (where this position is based), Downtown Boston. And every summer, we hold an amazing beach retreat in Sardinia, Italy!
Free lunch - yes, being in Italy, it's something you should care about!
Organic fresh fruit
Your personal MacBook
Flexible work hours
Free, superior Italian coffee - of course
Free cookies, if you deserve them
Much more...

